1. 1D Visualization: Histogram (Sepal Length Distribution)
Steps:

Drag sepal_length to the Columns shelf.

Click on the "Show Me" panel (top-right) and select Histogram.

Drag species to the Color mark to color-code by species.

(Optional) Adjust bin size: Right-click the x-axis → Edit Bins → Set to 0.5.

Why? Shows how sepal lengths are distributed across species (Setosa has smaller sepals).

2. 2D Visualization: Scatter Plot (Sepal Length vs. Petal Length)
Steps:

Drag sepal_length to Columns.

Drag petal_length to Rows.

Drag species to Color.

(Optional) Add labels: Click the Label mark and check "Show mark labels".

Why? Reveals clear clusters—Setosa (small petals), Versicolor/Virginica (larger petals).

3. "3D" Workaround: Scatter Plot with Size Encoding (Sepal Length, Petal Length, Petal Width)
Since Tableau doesn’t support true 3D plots, use size for the 3rd dimension:

Create the same scatter plot as above (**sepal_length vs. petal_length).

Drag petal_width to the Size mark.

Drag species to Color.

Why? Larger bubbles = wider petals (virginica has the widest petals).

1. Temporal Visualization (Simulated Trend)
Line Chart: "Observation Order vs. Sepal Length"
Steps:

Create a calculated field named "Observation Order":

INDEX()
Drag "Observation Order" to Columns.

Drag "sepal_length" to Rows.

Drag "species" to Color.

Change mark type to Line.

Why? Simulates how sepal length changes across rows (like a time series).

2. Multidimensional Visualization
Scatter Plot Matrix (All Numerical Variables)
Steps:

Click "Show Me" → Select "Scatter Plot Matrix".

Hold Ctrl and select all four measures:

sepal_length, sepal_width, petal_length, petal_width.

Drag "species" to Color.

Why? Compares all variables at once, revealing species clusters.

3. Tree/Hierarchical Visualization
Treemap: "Species by Average Petal Size"
Steps:

Drag "species" to Columns.

Drag "AVG(petal_length)" to Size.

Drag "AVG(petal_width)" to Color.

Click "Show Me" → Treemap.

Why? Shows hierarchical size comparisons (Virginica has largest petals).

4. Network Visualization (Workaround)
Node-Link Diagram: "Similar Flowers by Sepal Length"
Steps:

Create a calculated field "Similarity Group":

IF [sepal_length] > 6 THEN "Large" ELSE "Small" END
Drag "species" to Columns.

Drag "Similarity Group" to Rows.

Drag "COUNTD(observation_id)" to Size.

Change mark type to Circle and connect with lines.

Why? Groups flowers by sepal size (artificial "network")